Hello, and welcome to another walkthrough for computer architecture for everybody.
We're playing with our 6504 emulator programming and kind of working through some increasingly
complex samples as we go.
So we're gonna go into the uppercase sample.
Now the previous thing we did was a loop and this is really more of an if test.
We're not gonna do a loop and the next thing we're going to have an if test and a loop.
So we're going to, we're not gonna store any data here.
It's really simple.
We're just doing an if statement.
We're gonna check in this one hard-coded valuables.
We're gonna check to see if p is greater than or less than a.
So we're gonna load into a the constant p.
We're gonna compare the constant a with the accumulator.
We're doing a convert to uppercase here.
If it's already uppercase, we're going to skip down and if it's not uppercase, we're
gonna convert it to uppercase.
And this will only work for lowercase a through z, but you get the idea, okay?
So let's take a look here, convert to uppercase.
So let's go ahead and so if we look at these things, we got a load.
We got our immediate.
So that's the letter p.
We got our compare and then we have our immediate, which is the letter a and then we have the
branch of minus down two and the branch of minus is really skipping this subtraction
and going all the way to eight.
So the if then else that we've kind of got here is if it's minus, we're going to skip
down two instructions to eight.
If it is not minus, we're going to run six and then that's gonna be a subtract immediate
of zero x 20.
Hopefully you kind of see that that's a two and that's a zero because the zero x 20, you
can see those.
At some point, you should start seeing the hex.
Okay, let's go ahead and just run this at full speed and maybe I'll talk a little bit
about it afterwards.
I'm just going to turn on narration and fire.
Oh no, I'm going to step, I'm going to step.
So let's do the first one.
Let's load the letter p into the accumulator.
PC zero x zero zero load accumulator immediate zero x seven zero.
So that's a zero x seven zero, which is lowercase p and ASCII.
Oh, hang on.
Let me bring up the ASCII chart, right?
So now we can bring up the ASCII chart, so that's kind of fun.
So I got this little ASCII chart for you quick computation.
So zero x seven zero is a, hopefully, a lowercase p.
Look at that.
So zero x seven zero is a lowercase p.
The assembler converted this from a quote p quote, which is one of its many load accumulator
syntaxes and it changed it into zero one one one zero zero zero and which is the letter
p.
Now, we're going to compare this with the letter a.
So where is that?
This is the, we're in instruction two now and we're going to compare it with the a and
a is just sixty one hex and there it is, sixty one hex and so let's just compare it, run
one instruction.
PC zero x zero two, compare accumulator with immediate zero x six one.
Okay, so now we basically have it set so that p, which was in the accumulator, is greater
than a.
We didn't set the zero flag and we didn't set the negative flag, okay?
And if this character that we just compared is less than a, then we're going to skip.
If it's not, we're going to subtract twenty from it.
So it's not going to be very exciting, this is going to become zero x fifty, because we're
going to subtract zero x twenty.
So let's go ahead and run that step.
PC zero x zero four, branch if minus address zero x zero eight.
The branch didn't get taken, it fell right through into position zero x zero six and
now we're going to do a subtract.
PC zero x zero six, subtract with carry immediate zero x two zero.
So now the next instruction is to stop, but you'll notice that we did subtract that seventy.
The accumulator was seventy, which is the letter, where were we?
The letter p, and we subtracted twenty hex to it, which just happens to be uppercase
p.
So this was a convert to uppercase operation.
And the last step is just to stop.
PC zero x zero eight, break, no printed output.
So we didn't store anything.
We just are showing a simple if then else, which turns into a sort of compare and skip
based on flag values.
So I hope you found this particular useful in the walkthrough and cheers and see you
on the net.